>> Evan You: In the afternoon, we're going
to talk about two very important topics,
state management and routing.
So state management is
kind of a big topic.
So the agenda really
covers four exercises,
but before diving into exercises,
obviously,
we need to talk a little bit about
state management in general.
So the idea of state management
sorta did not exist in
frontend until Facebook brought
up this concept called Flux.
Well, before that, we were trying to
move MVC into the frontend world,
and our state lives in so-called models,
which is a good abstraction for
a lot of cases.
In fact,
it probably still works pretty well, but
the primary problem with, say,
backbone back then is we lacked a way
to declaratively hook our models
into our rendering process.
So this new wave of React, Vue, and
Angular, the biggest advantage is our
state is now sort of transparently
connected to our Vue.
But that also brings in the problem,
because it is so
easy to spread state everywhere,
and change them anywhere.
Your application, as it grows,
it becomes more and more difficult to
track down where you store the state and
where you're changing the state, right?
At the end of the day,
a lot of the problem is really trying to
pinpoint where the problem originates
from when you run into something.
And without a proper pattern for
you to organize all these code
that's touching your state,
you end up with a sort of a hunting
game when you run into something weird.
And really, your app becomes more and
more unpredictable in that sense.
So state management, really, it's just
a movement of frontend developers
trying to figure out ways to sort of
bring disciplines into where your
code should live, and
how you should manage your states.
And eventually, makes it easier for you to
pinpoint problems when things go wrong,
and also helps with collaboration and
that stuff.
So Flux was sort of this first idea of
unidirectional data flow and all that.
And later on, the React community popped
up a lot of different implementations of
the Flux pattern, and eventually, today
the de facto library people use is Redux.
And there's a alternative pattern, MobX,
which is closer to the reactivity
model pattern, and
its internal implementation is
actually very similar to to Vue's.
So in the Vue world, obviously,
it's pretty straightforward and
easy to just put your state
inside your components.
In fact, it probably would
work in a lot of simple cases.
I personally think that state
management libraries or
patterns is not necessarily
needed in every case.
For simple scenarios,
you might be better off without it.
And the author of Redux,
Dan Abramov, has a quote saying that
Flux patterns are like glasses.
You know it when you need it, right?
If you're seeing everything perfectly
fine, then you probably don't need it, but
the moment you realize, there's something
wrong with my sight, you do need it.
And it's a natural process,
but sometimes it's
not that easy to predict how big your app
will be, but you have intuition, right?
If your boss tell you, hey,
this is our most important app,
you need to expect to maintain it for
a few years, then you probably need to
think about state management from day one.
So let's talk a bit about Vuex,
which is the state management pattern for
Vue.
It's an official library by the Vue team,
and
it's also associated with the code
organizing patterns that comes with it.
But today we're not really going to
be talking about how to use Vuex.
If you have not used it before,
>> Evan You: Has
any one of you used Vuex before?
Okay, great, so
some of you already know what it does.
So if you haven't,
it might be a good idea to
read through this page.
It's called What is Vuex?
It's in the Vuex docs.
>> Evan You: A quick example,
we have code like this.
Everybody know what this does.
It's a Vue instance.
It has some state, it has a template,
it has some methods,
and [COUGH] if you call app.increment,
it will increment the count,
in turn, render the count.
So this is a very simple app,
but it has the three
essential pieces of what a user
interface is consisted of.
It has a state, it has the view,
it has our possible ways
that the state could change.
And the difficulty arises when
[COUGH] we have multiple applications,
or we have multiple components
in the same app, really.
But you can think of
a component as a small circle.
It's a self-contained unit, right?
Ideally, we want our components
to be as decoupled as possible.
That's the ideal situation,
because if they're decoupled,
they're easy to maintain.
But the problem arises when you have
multiple components that need
access to the same piece of state.
That's where the complexity comes in, and
in reality, in almost all the big apps,
you will run into such scenarios.
For example,
you grab some data from the backend API,
and your page A needs that data,
your page B also needs that data.
And even worse, there could be two
different components nested in
very different,
deeply nested component trees, but
they still need to access
the same piece of data.
So the question becomes unclear which
component should own the data, right, and
eventually, you realize neither
of them should own the data.
The data should be hoisted out
to be managed in a centralized
place if the data is meant to be shared
by multiple components across your app.
So that brings up the necessity for
a library or a pattern for you to do that,
and Vuex is essentially
that whole thing for
the Vue ecosystem.
But Vuex really kind of has already
gone through quite a few iterations,
so in addition to the basic concepts,
it also brings more.
It also brings some extra
things that's only meant for
when you are really growing big,
for example,
the module system, and
plugin system, and all that.
But today we're not going
to talk about that.
We're going to sort of go from the ground
up, as the name of this workshop suggests.
We're gonna think about how we can sorta
start with the most simple, most minimal
implementation of what a potential state
management library could look for Vue.